


<h1><a name="womoz_actions_and_projects" id="womoz_actions_and_projects">WoMoz Actions and Projects</a></h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>

<strong>Want to help us and promote some of the WoMoz projects? Come get involved! Choose from some of our actions are listed here:</strong>

</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Mentoring program ⇒ project contributors can help interested people in their first contribution to WoMoz or Mozilla</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Regular update of Wiki by WoMoz contributors, <acronym title="Internet Relay Chat">IRC</acronym> channel exists to meet contributors, writing in the <a href="http://www.womoz.org/blog/" class="urlextern" title="http://www.womoz.org/blog/"  rel="nofollow">blog</a> (syndicated on <a href="http://planet.mozilla.org/" class="urlextern" title="http://planet.mozilla.org/"  rel="nofollow">Planet Mozilla</a>), participating in the discussions of our <a href="http://lists.womoz.org/mailman/listinfo/womoz" class="urlextern" title="http://lists.womoz.org/mailman/listinfo/womoz"  rel="nofollow">mailing list</a>, joining and animating our <a href="http://www.facebook.com/WoMoz" class="urlextern" title="http://www.facebook.com/WoMoz"  rel="nofollow">Facebook Page</a> as well as <a href="https://twitter.com/WoMozilla" class="urlextern" title="https://twitter.com/WoMozilla"  rel="nofollow">our Twitter account</a>. All this will help the project obtain a better visibility</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Keep in contact with <acronym title="Free/Libre and Open Source Software">FLOSS</acronym> communities (LUGs, “Agenda du Libre”, AFUL, APRIL, geckozone, interlug, etc.) and regularly give them updates about the project: in order for them to communicate about the project in their communities and collaborating in them</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Continuous promotion of project, of Mozilla and of women in Open Source (in magazines, feminine magazines, newspapers, etc.)</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Talk about Womoz on your blog and amongst your communities. Spread the word!</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Organize a local project that involves women in a Mozilla/Open Source project and that empowers women</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Point out what women contributors in Open Source -  and in Mozilla &amp; WoMoz - have done and are currently doing: “I did it, you can too”</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Give presentations and talks about the project, present WoMoz in <acronym title="Free/Libre and Open Source Software">FLOSS</acronym> events</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Interviews of women working in Open Source (written and video) to give more visibility to women&#039;s work and projects. Broadcast the videos as much as possible (Dailymotion, Youtube, blogs,…)</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create <a href="https://addons.mozilla.org/firefox" class="urlextern" title="https://addons.mozilla.org/firefox"  rel="nofollow">Firefox Addons</a>. Create themes, <a href="http://www.getpersonas.com/" class="urlextern" title="http://www.getpersonas.com/"  rel="nofollow">Personas</a>, etc.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Define activities that don&#039;t exist yet and that could be interesting for women</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Organize more events for the general public: promote the women&#039;s project in Universities, during Festivals, participating in roller events,…</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Introduction classes and tutorials for programming. Propose and put up tutorials on the wiki / <acronym title="Internet Relay Chat">IRC</acronym></div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Find opportunities to collaborate with Mozilla developers</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Code competitions / Hack Days</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Fun video clips and posters</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Possible slogans for the project: Girls in Touch, I tried shopping … I prefer programming, “Il ne faut jurer de rien”, Human being communicator, “Richard: marketing director, Samantha: Free Software Activist”, etc.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Be creative, come up with ideas and discuss them with us! We&#039;re open :)</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
