


<h1><a name="meeting_notes16_02_2012" id="meeting_notes16_02_2012">Meeting Notes: 16/02/2012</a></h1>
<div class="level1">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Delphine will check location, timing, schools/communities to involve – target group-size.<br/>
 Sponsorship?</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> CDM will share Event “footprint” presentation.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Budget:  It&#039;s roughly 15,000 euros spread fairly equally across:</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
- Labcoats (3000-4,000 euros depending on the number of girls);<br/>

- Location overhead (security, rental, lunch/catering, insurance, etc.); and <br/>

- Project Mgt/Travel/Promotion/Materials stuff (e.g. g4g overhead)<br/>

But these are only indications for you to keep in mind… <br/>

- We should probably also consider a nominal reservation/admin fee (15-20 Euros?) for each attendee, depending on the target communities/schools.  First, it helps to decrease no-shows, and frankly, if we don&#039;t get sponsorship for the full budget above, we&#039;ll at least be able to cover our costs, hopefully.    (Depending on what we decide here, the presentation would need to be modified.)

</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Follow-up Blogpost mid-March: Cheryl will do that</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- SECTION "Meeting Notes: 16/02/2012" [1-1001] -->
<h1><a name="meeting_notes08_03_2012" id="meeting_notes08_03_2012">Meeting Notes: 08/03/2012</a></h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
(with Duchesses and Coding Goûters)
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> </div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- SECTION "Meeting Notes: 08/03/2012" [1002-1089] -->
<h1><a name="meeting_notes16_03_2012" id="meeting_notes16_03_2012">Meeting Notes: 16/03/2012</a></h1>
<div class="level1">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>SPONSORSHIP</strong></div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>

Potential sponsors need to see a proposal for paris event. Send cheryl&#039;s presentation updated w/ date and location. 
Once we have content and material, then we can give them something concrete to evaluate.

</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>LOCATION</strong></div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>

- Space needed:<br/>

There will be 120 girls max<br/>

7 girls / workshop<br/>

18 workshops: so we need 18 workshop leaders<br/>

<br/>

If we have a fun lab, that takes out 1/4th girls of that<br/>

</p>

<p>
- Coding gouter are willing to help out with finding location if necessary
</p>

<p>
- a school would be perfect. Let&#039;s first look for schools more than another location.
TARGET A SCHOOL FIRST !!!<br/>

Ask them to pay for the event if it&#039;s the private school, then ask for sponsorship from their organizations, the ones they know.<br/>

</p>

<p>
- Rally women teachers (science maths, etc) to get their girls to go.<br/>

- Try private schools (légion d&#039;honneur, lycée international, etc)<br/>

- And less public schools as well. <br/>

- Can be in suburbs of Paris <br/>

- Tell all of them to pass on word about event.<br/>


</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">  <strong>TIMING</strong></div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>

- Summer vacation starts on 5th of July for all. <br/>

So let&#039;s do it end of june (one of the last 2 saturdays in June)<br/>

<br/>

</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>WORKSHOP LEADERS</strong></div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
- need 18 people<br/>

- ask everyone we can, I should find at least 15 because Cheryl probably has 3 already<br/>


</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>CLEARLY DISTRIBUTE TASKS OUT:</strong><br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
- workshop and workshop leaders on the moment<br/>

- registration - managing the attendees on the moment (probably doing an admin fee)<br/>

- funlab and sponsorship - the sponsors have their stuff there too, so pp can play with that. There are gadgets and toys, from sponsors and others as well. A lot of gaming related stuff, game tests, quizz things, <br/>

- Role model speech can be from someone from sponsor, someone inspiring
(beginning of the day and end of the day).<br/>

- Need a speach for the end, to wrap-up the day: I&#039;ll do that<br/>

- onsite logistics<br/>

- promotion and marketing<br/>

</p>

<p>
[Note: When a project is helping out with money = sponsor. If a project is helping out with workshop = partner. They will both have their logos on website, etc.]
</p>

<p>
<strong>My tasks:</strong><br/>

- I oversee funlabs <br/>

- sponsorship <br/>

- workshop <br/>

- workshop leaders,<br/>

- eventbrite: different workshops and see if I let the girls choose all, or only choose 1 or 2 workshop from eventbrite. They will only be able do to 3 during the day and there are 18 workshops.<br/>

</p>

<p>

<strong>Need other people to be in charge of these tasks:</strong><br/>

- onsite logistics<br/>

- promotions and marketing- getting 3 schools on board can help a lot<br/>

- registration<br/>

- eventbrite will probably be helped by vencianne - she does the cool printing and collating the agendas<br/>

</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>WHAT&#039;S NEXT?</strong></div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>

- We need to define pp in charge for different tasks<br/>

</p>

<p>
- next TODO action items:<br/>

</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Cheryl&#039;s follow-up blog post<br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> setup an clear agenda for the event: a planning schedule. I&#039;ll put it online on the womoz wiki so we can work on it all together<br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> people in charge of different and specific tasks should be defined<br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> know where the event will take place: make reservation<br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> know about sponsorship for Mozilla (me)<br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> start “sponsorship quest”<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
<br/>


</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Main Agenda in big lines:</strong><br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<br/>

<strong>FIRST: FIND SCHOOL!!!!!</strong><br/>

then:<br/>

</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> events date<br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> location<br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> registration opens (6weeks before event)<br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Soft promotion starts 6 weeks before event (make posters)<br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 1month before the event HARD PROMOTION<br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Close registration a week before the event<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- SECTION "Meeting Notes: 16/03/2012" [1090-] -->